So I've mentioned binary like
a million times already.
And Bynary is so fascinating because
at the core of it as Engineers,
all we are doing is moving ones and
zeros around.
It doesn't matter what
language you're writing.
It doesn't matter how high level or
low it's.
At the end of the day,
all we're doing is manipulating these
tiny switches on a computer, on a CPU.
And we're just turning them on and
off a billion times a second.
That's it.
There's something beautiful
in that simplicity.
In that the things we build and
these amazing contracts like browsers and
games, and ebooks and websites.
[LAUGH] And
literally all the technology we use today,
if it involves anything electronic, it's
just a one or zero at the end of the day.
And I love that.
I don't know there's a beauty to that.
I think the equivalent would be if I could
speak and me speaking could create things.
That's the same level that
I think a programming at.
Honestly, and this is my
probably my first rant of the day
I really think programming is magic.
Okay, hear me out that
seems a little strange,
but we all use this fundamental force.
We use binary to manipulate
data to do things.
So, we all understand that.
It doesn't matter what type of
language you're writing in.
It's gonna compile down to binary
ultimately and run on a computer.
But kind of like Hogwarts and Harry
Potter, there are different schools of
thought about how we should use this
binary language to get our our means.
And people are firmly entrenched and
JavaScript is better and C is better or
I wanna use Rusts or Elm or
whatever language you want to use.
But at the end of the day,
it doesn't matter.
It's all about binary and
how those instructions get written.
I think that's so cool.
To me there is no equivalence in the real
world or anywhere in the real world.
But there is no other analogy I can think
of that as as powerful as the ability to
have turn something on or off.
And that dictates all these
wonderful things we're gonna build.
So, moving talking more about binary.
Let's talk about
the nomenclature behind binary.
Binary, the smallest unit of computing
we think of it's actually a one.
I say ones and zeros, but
a zero is just a state.
So zero being off, one being on.
That's it.
So
actually all we know about computing
is a one, which I don't know.
Take a minute.
Yeah, that's kinda weird, right?
There's only one thing we do and
that's on or off.
That's it.
But the smallest unit and
information in binary is a bit.
So it's a 1 or 0.
A group of eight bits is called a byte.
And a byte is generally the smallest
sequence of bits that we're gonna use,
that we can get useful information out of.
And I believe four bits is called a word.
I haven't taken my CS.
It's been a while since
I had my CS degree.
Somehow they gave it to me.
I don't know how.
But I'm trying to remember this
nomenclature from back then, but
we won't get into words.
But once you understand what a byte is,
we understand that a kilobyte
is about 1000 bytes.
Give or take, it's actually, 1024 because
base two and all the other stuff.
But, we will see bytes and
bits later probably not that's as much but
we'll see bytes.
Because we will be directly
manipulating these ones and
zeros when we convert
data into a byte array.
A one and
a zero is known as the base two system.
So the bi, binary meaning two,
it's just a counting system in computers.
The system we're most familiar
with is the base ten system,
the decimal, deci meaning ten.
And that just means that at any
given position a number can be
zero through nine.
So there's ten positions I know I
didn't say ten because ten is actually
a construct of a nine and a one.
I know it's a little bit different
way about thinking of things.
Binary being based two means there's
only two possible numbers for
any given position.
That's a one or zero.
And counting in base two,
we start off with the first position.
So we're looking at right here,
we're looking at just the bite.
So we're looking at eight
bits of information.
And we count base two and we increment
by 24, 816, 32, 128, etc, etc, etc.
That's why when you see memory written
out, it's always in 64 kilobytes or
128 or 256.
They're always some sort of power of two.
That's how we count in binary.
Don't worry,
[LAUGH] I will not show you binary to ask
you to figure out what it what it means.
I had to do that in school.
And I still am resentful for
it because it doesn't really help you.
[LAUGH] Like there's no way in programming
that I'm going to be doing binary.
Generally speaking, hopefully not.
I'm not gonna be thinking in bits as much.
I will be thinking in bytes,
which are a little bit
easier to reason about than just
saying like, Is that 12345.
Is that five zeros or not, okay, so
five, that's 64 they flip that bit.
Yeah, we're not really gonna do that
we're always gonna deal in bytes,
generally speaking, and it just makes
reasoning about it much simpler.
Are there any questions
about reading binary and
how the counting system works in
base two and things like that?
Because it's a little tricky
to think 24816 doubling and
that any position can only be pne or zero.
And using that we base all of our numbers,
everything we do strings, objects,
numbers, doesn't matter.
They're all based on
this system at the core.
Okay, I know.
If you're saying this is so technical
already, I'm sorry, I'm not really sorry.
Yeah, you're gonna learn something.
It's awesome.
We're building up our this
foundation of knowledge.
You may know some of this.
You may not be probably heard of it.
But I guarantee you've heard of it.
Okay, so it gets even more complicated.
So we have, a byte of data.
So that's eight bits,
as we said before, but
depending on the computer architecture,
we might read bytes in ascending order.
So that means the right most
is the smallest number And
the left most is the largest number at or
we read it.
So the left most is the largest number.
And the right most is is the or
the leftmost, the smallest number and
the right most is the largest number.
This format is known as Endian,
which I always thought was a funny name.
No one says computer engineers don't have
a sense of humor because the naming is is
interesting.
But what we're gonna use today a web
assembly and almost all, not almost all,
but most of the modern computers
use us Little Endian format.
That is we read from right to left.
There are some systems that still use
big endian I can't think of any off
the top of my head.
But there have been some hilarious
catastrophic bugs when people
import code that is meant to
be written in little endian.
And it's in big endian and
it just throws the whole system haywire
because it's literally reading backwards.
It's like trying to understand a book.
By reading it backwards.
Is it possible?
Yeah, is it the best way to code?
No, I, I only throw this tidbit of about
Endian big endian because when you're
reading documentation for webassembly and
particularly assembly script enough,
some of the other things
we'll get to today,
you will see that phrase Little Endian and
Now you know what it means.
It just means the order
that we read the bytes in.
Actually, that's a good time to jump.
All right so, these are just jumped
into the official Web Assembly
documents make that a little bigger.
I will say generally
you're not gonna go here.
[LAUGH] These docs, it's cool if
you're maybe a systems engineer or
a computer engineer who builds
microarchitecture for web assembly.
But I don't want you to be
overwhelmed if someone's like yeah,
just check out the documentation
on web assembly.
It's not really gonna be that useful to
you in the context of this class, but
it exists just so you know that I'm
pointing you to the right resources.
You can look up everything
we're gonna talk about, and
they'll explain it in a much more
tactical manner generally speaking.
But I wouldn't say you're gonna
spend too much time on this site.
But it's here if you need it.